README.md, before:

# Virusotal API HTML

The virustotal-api-html project allows getting HTML reports using the VirusTotal API.

Features included:

- Analyzing bulk IP addresses (one or more) and getting the HTML report in HTML format: pure HTML (only HTML balises) or PNG screenshot of the report included on the HTML page.
- Multiple API keys can be used to remediate the limitation of the number of requests allowed per minute/day/month for free accounts. So analyzing multiple IPs will be possible.
- Since the analysis output can be huge, it is possible to fix the rows limit number for every part of analysis using only a configuration file.
- It is possible to rename every part of the analysis to get a custom sections
- The HTML page's style is customizable from the HTML header.
- The viewed HTML tables are also customizable using class attribute if it is necessary to use a predefined style class.

This project only support IP address analysis.

**TO DO** on the next releases:
- Adding a "retry analysis" with a different API key if one of the API keys reaches the limit for sending requests (per minute/day/month).
- Adding a "retry analysis" with a waiting time if the analysis fails due to reaching the limit for sending requests (per minute/day/month).
- Adding domain analysis.
- Adding URL analysis.
- Adding the file hash Analysis.

## Installation
You need to download this project and install the Linux packages and the Python3 packages using these commands:

```
git clone https://github.com/mohamedaymenkarmous/virustotal-api-html
cd virustotal-api-html
python ./setup.py
```

## Configuration
You have to edit the config.json file which is a clone of this file: [config.json.bak](config.json.bak).

The most important thing is the VirusTotal API Keys. You need at least one API Key. But if you have more, you can add them to the configuration file:
```
{
  ...
  "VirusTotal": {
    "APIKeys": [
      "YOUR_VIRUS_TOTAL_API_KEY",
      "ANOTHER_OPTIONAL_VIRUS_TOTAL_API_KEY_IF_YOU_NEED_MORE"
    ],
   ...
  }
}
```
The main python script [VirusTotal.py](VirusTotal.py) will use all the API keys with rotating over them every time a request will be performed and the last used API key will be remembered by its index.

Other pre-configured sections:
- General > OutputDir: it's the location where the HTML and JPG files will be created. If you are using a VPS instance without GUI and you want to view the reports, you can install a web server over there and choose the output directory inside the Web Document Root directory.
- General > TablesClass: it's the <table> class atrribute's value that will be set on the HTML reports. The default class was set to have a table style inherited from Bootstrap.
- General > HTMLHeader: it's the HTML code that will be set on the HTML <header>. So if you have need to add custom styles/header, you should put it there.
- VirusTotal > DisabledAttr: it's the list of the attributes that will not be viewed on the reports. This include Whois results and the last used HTTPS certificate results.
- VirusTotal > MaxResults: as said above, some results returned by the VirusTotal API can reach the 100 results (detected and undetected attributes) and others reach 1000 results (resolutions attribute). This will created a long report. So if you want to limit the output, you can fix it.
- VirusTotal > Order: it's a list that contains the priority section names (attributes) that should be set on the head of the report. If there is at least one element on this list, the order feature will be enabled. If there are another section names that are not set on this list, they will be set at the end of the list.
- VirusTotal > AttrSubstitution: it's the translation list. Since the API response will not contain section names like the VirusTotal website but instead it will contain a one word section names fixed by the API, it is necessary to translate these names to an understandable name. For the attributes that starts with `detected` and `undetected`, if their translated name is the same, they will be merged with a high priority for the `detected` list and that will be on the head of the list in the section.

## How it works

### IP Addresses reports

Every time you have to analyze IP addresses, you have to edit the [input_ip.txt](input_ip.txt) file.
Every line should contain only one IP address.

Then, run the [VirusTotal.py](VirusTotal.py) script:

```
python3 ./VirusTotal.py
```

## Examples

### IP Addresses reports

This is a copy of the [output](output) folder that contains the reports (HTML and JPG screenshot) of 2 analyzed IPs: [example_output](example_output):
![Screenshot1](example_output/192.160.102.164-VirusTotal.jpg)
![Screenshot2](example_output/216.58.213.131-VirusTotal.jpg) 

## Reporting an issue or a feature request

Issues and feature requests are tracked in the Github [issue tracker](https://github.com/mohamedaymenkarmous/virustotal-api-html/issues).

Commit message:

Adding other features including the web feature, sql persisting, input type and the recaptcha protection

README.md, after:

# Virusotal API HTML

The virustotal-api-html project allows getting HTML reports using the VirusTotal API.

Features included:

- Analyzing bulk IP addresses (one or more) and getting the HTML report in HTML format: pure HTML (only HTML balises) or PNG screenshot of the report included on the HTML page.
- Multiple API keys can be used to remediate the limitation of the number of requests allowed per minute/day/month for free accounts. So analyzing multiple IPs will be possible.
- Since the analysis output can be huge, it is possible to fix the rows limit number for every part of analysis using only a configuration file.
- It is possible to rename every part of the analysis to get a custom sections
- The HTML page's style is customizable from the HTML header.
- The viewed HTML tables are also customizable using class attribute if it is necessary to use a predefined style class.

This project only support IP address analysis.

**TO DO** on the next releases:
- Adding a "retry analysis" with a different API key if one of the API keys reaches the limit for sending requests (per minute/day/month).
- Adding a "retry analysis" with a waiting time if the analysis fails due to reaching the limit for sending requests (per minute/day/month).
- Adding domain analysis.
- Adding URL analysis.
- Adding the file hash Analysis.

## Installation
You need to download this project and install the Linux packages and the Python3 packages using these commands:

```
git clone https://github.com/mohamedaymenkarmous/virustotal-api-html
cd virustotal-api-html
./setup.sh
```

## Configuration
You have to edit the config.json file which is a clone of this file: [config.json.bak](config.json.bak).

The most important thing is the VirusTotal API Keys. You need at least one API Key. But if you have more, you can add them to the configuration file:
```
{
  ...
  "VirusTotal": {
    "APIKeys": [
      "YOUR_VIRUS_TOTAL_API_KEY",
      "ANOTHER_OPTIONAL_VIRUS_TOTAL_API_KEY_IF_YOU_NEED_MORE"
    ],
   ...
  }
}
```
The main python script [VirusTotal.py](VirusTotal.py) will use all the API keys with rotating over them every time a request will be performed and the last used API key will be remembered by its index.

Other pre-configured sections:
- General > OutputDir: it's the location where the HTML and JPG files will be created. If you are using a VPS instance without GUI and you want to view the reports, you can install a web server over there and choose the output directory inside the Web Document Root directory.
- General > TablesClass: it's the <table> class atrribute's value that will be set on the HTML reports. The default class was set to have a table style inherited from Bootstrap.
- General > HTMLHeader: it's the HTML code that will be set on the HTML <header>. So if you have need to add custom styles/header, you should put it there.
- Recaptcha > PublicKey: it's the Recaptcha V3 (please not the version number) public key that is set in the form and that will be sent with the input.
- Recaptcha > PrivateKey: it's the Recaptcha V3 (please not the version number) private key that will be used to validate the recaptcha response in the back-end.
- VirusTotal > Input: it refers to the input that will be scanned (IP address, domain name, file hash, URL) if it's get from the script arguments `Argument` or from the input_ip.txt file `File`.
- VirusTotal > GeneralOutput: if this value is set to "1", the files `<output>/latest-VirusTotal.html` and `<output>/latest-VirusTotal.jpg` will be created. Otherwise ("0"), those files will not be created. This feature is needed for a bluk input (multiple values) that will be scanned and the result from the different pages will be regrouped in a single page.
- VirusTotal > Persistence: it refers to the output if it needs to be saved in the database (mysql) `SQL` or not `None`.
- VirusTotal > PersistenceCredentials: this list contains the mysql configuration to get access to the database, the table and to select, update and insert the data.
- VirusTotal > DisabledAttr: it's the list of the attributes that will not be viewed on the reports. This include Whois results and the last used HTTPS certificate results.
- VirusTotal > MaxResults: as said above, some results returned by the VirusTotal API can reach the 100 results (detected and undetected attributes) and others reach 1000 results (resolutions attribute). This will created a long report. So if you want to limit the output, you can fix it.
- VirusTotal > Order: it's a list that contains the priority section names (attributes) that should be set on the head of the report. If there is at least one element on this list, the order feature will be enabled. If there are another section names that are not set on this list, they will be set at the end of the list.
- VirusTotal > AttrSubstitution: it's the translation list. Since the API response will not contain section names like the VirusTotal website but instead it will contain a one word section names fixed by the API, it is necessary to translate these names to an understandable name. For the attributes that starts with `detected` and `undetected`, if their translated name is the same, they will be merged with a high priority for the `detected` list and that will be on the head of the list in the section.

## How it works

### IP Addresses reports

Every time you have to analyze IP addresses, you have to edit the [input_ip.txt](input_ip.txt) file.
Every line should contain only one IP address.

Then, run the [VirusTotal.py](VirusTotal.py) script:

```
python3 ./VirusTotal.py
```

## Examples

### IP Addresses reports

This is a copy of the [output](output) folder that contains the reports (HTML and JPG screenshot) of 2 analyzed IPs: [example_output](example_output):
![Screenshot1](example_output/192.160.102.164-VirusTotal.jpg)
![Screenshot2](example_output/216.58.213.131-VirusTotal.jpg) 

## Reporting an issue or a feature request

Issues and feature requests are tracked in the Github [issue tracker](https://github.com/mohamedaymenkarmous/virustotal-api-html/issues).
